00:00
First of all
At the beginning I want to tell you about an event
That is my podcast program
This program is almost a year old
Oh my god!
I started last August 19, 2020.
I uploaded the first episode of the show
It's been almost a year since then.
It's really unbelievable
A year is a long time.
It's not too short
I feel quite moved
So I want to do a Q & A
If you have any questions
whether it's about me or about Taiwan
You can ask me anything
Then you can go to my ig my id is talktaiwanesemandarinpodcast
or on my youtube channel
Find this video
and leave a comment below asking me a question
Or you can send me a direct message on my Patreon
or leave me a question below the post of this episode
Either way
Then I will record a special episode
to answer your questions.
So if you have any questions for me, you can ask me now!
And the second small activity
I want to give away postcards
I'll probably choose two listeners at random
How do I get this postcard? I made the postcard.
I haven't done it yet
But I'll do it when this event starts
I'll probably choose a photo I took during my trip to Taiwan
and make it into a postcard
I will write the postcard to you by hand
How do I get this postcard? You can find out how to get it in the show note program information section
to join this event
No matter where you are
No matter you are abroad
or anywhere in the world
I will send it to you
So if you want to get a postcard made by me
handwritten postcards
You can go to see how to get the activity Oh
02:40
Okay
Then let's start today's program
The topic I want to talk to you about today is
This is the topic that one of my listeners told me in my ig that he wanted to hear me talk about
It's about the daily habits in Taiwan, but in Australia it's very strange.
This topic is quite interesting
So I thought about it
If you are a new listener, you may not know that
I lived in Melbourne, Australia from 2018 to early 2020
I lived in Melbourne, Australia for more than a year
So today is all about my own experience
That's because I've lived in Melbourne
Maybe every place
Each city
Each state is a little different, right?
But I just want to share my experience of living in Melbourne with you
The first one is that
There are actually quite a lot of people in Taiwan
especially girls
A lot of people will take umbrellas
I'm talking about when the weather is good
When the sun is shining, they will hold an umbrella
It's a sun umbrella
To shade the sun
So this is a very common thing in Taiwan
03:54
There may be many reasons
The first may be that you do not want to sunburn
Or do not want to get skin cancer
Or do not want to tan
In fact, I myself will also support the umbrella
Then I am not afraid of tanning
I don't think it's bad
But because my face is very sensitive
My face gets very red when it's in the sun
And I've been to a dermatologist before
He advised me not to sunbathe
I need to protect myself from the sun.
Wear a hat or an umbrella or something.
I don't like to wear sunscreen on my face.
I find it very troublesome and not very comfortable
So I always use physical sunscreen.
What is a physical sunscreen? I wear a hat or an umbrella.
That's because my face doesn't have a way to get into the sun
The other parts of the body is relatively no worse
04:48
When I was in Australia
I hardly ever see anyone in good weather will take an umbrella
Only when it rains will they take an umbrella
But Australia is really super hot in the summer
I was in Melbourne when the hottest to 40 degrees
I was really shocked
I didn't expect it to be so hot
Because I think Taiwan is also very hot
But I've never experienced 40 degree heat before
And at that time
I just felt so hot.
Oh my god!
I wanted to take an umbrella.
But no one was holding an umbrella
I felt embarrassed to do so
I didn't want to be thought of as a strange person
So I stayed there for over a year
I only remember seeing someone holding an umbrella twice
It was when the sun was shining
This is a very rare situation
But in Taiwan, this is very common
Especially in Taipei, it's very common
If you live in the south now
From my experience in the south
Actually, it's quite rare
But there is still right
In Australia
I have noticed that people love the sun very much
But in contrast
In Taiwan, they are not so keen on sunbathing
In my case
I think if the weather is comfortable and just right
Warm weather
I also like to sunbathe
But in Australia, it means
Whenever the weather is nice
Everyone will go out
In the park, you can see a lot of people lying on the grass and sunbathing
Or at the beach too
And then, compared to other people
Taiwanese people are more serious about sun protection
But it's not always the case
06:32
Then the second one is actually wearing a mask
It must be said that wearing a mask may be very common now
Because of the epidemic
But at that time there was no epidemic ah
So you will hardly see anyone wearing a mask in Australia
I don't think I saw any or very few
In Taiwan, even if there was no epidemic
I still see a lot of people wearing masks
Because there are many reasons why we wear masks
The first one is probably because we have a cold.
When we feel sick, we wear masks
Because we don't want to spread the infection to others
Or you may be embarrassed when you cough
There may also be allergies
Some people have allergies because of the change of seasons
They sneeze all the time.
They may also wear a mask for this reason
Or they may wear them even if the air is bad sometimes
And maybe it's because it's cold
For example, many people ride bicycles
They ride motorcycles.
And then when it's windy, they wear a mask
It's warmer
So there are various reasons
Even if it's not an epidemic
It's very normal
But if you are in Australia or abroad
If you wear a mask
people should be scared
I mean, before the epidemic.
You might think that something has happened to you
Because I don't usually wear a mask
And I rarely
I hardly ever had a cold.
So I didn't want to wear a mask either
But in the winter time
Because it's quite cold in Melbourne in winter
And then I ride my bike at that time
So it's very windy.
My nose would run like crazy when I rode
I had a runny nose all the time.
So at that time, I thought
I should wear a mask
08:20
One more thing
This may not be normal in Taiwan, in Australia is very strange
But I think this point can be shared with you
is in Australia
Because each state's rules may be different
I was in Melbourne
In Victoria, my experience
I think the rules on alcohol in Australia are quite strict
How can I put it? Because the first one is
Out in the open, outdoors, in public
For example, in the street, in the park
The law does not allow you to drink alcohol
But in Taiwan, there is no such rule
So it does not matter if you drink on the street or where you are
In fact, I rarely drink in Taiwan
Not often
But in Australia is quite often
I think Australians feel particularly fond of drinking
Especially since I'm a foreigner over there
And then I often go to socialize
Meet new people
Meeting new people is very easy to say
Let's go for a drink
Let's go for a drink
But in Taiwan I was fine
I don't particularly like drinking
It's only with friends
And when meeting new people will drink a little
09:41
Another very different thing is that in Taiwan
You can buy wine in convenience stores or supermarkets
It's easy to buy wine
But in Australia
They do not have wine in the convenience store
They have a special store that sells wine
I think this is very different
It was quite wonderful to go there at that time
Because if I wanted to drink in Taiwan
I would go to the convenience store to buy alcohol
I could also buy snacks and stuff
All together
If you want to buy alcohol in Australia
You have to go to a special store
When I wanted to buy alcohol in Australia, the shopkeeper would ask me for my ID
They want to see if I am over 18 years old
This may be a little different from store to store
Some stores may not care how old you are or how old you look
They will look at everything
But some may not
That's why some of my friends say
I've never been asked to see ID before
Why are you always asked?
and so on
They may think that Asian people look younger
Can't tell how old they are
Even in Taiwan
I may be often thought of as quite young
I may be thought of as a student
But not so much as to be thought of as less than 18 years old ah
That's too exaggerated
So I think this is still quite good
10:59
Because my ID is my passport
But I can't carry my passport with me at all times and everywhere ah
Too much trouble
And will be afraid to lose
So sometimes suddenly want to buy wine will be refused
Because these stores will say that
If you look under 25 years old
you have to see the ID
If he sells it to you
Then they are caught is very serious
So I think they are more strict about alcohol regulations
Then I think this is also a good thing
11:33
Another time I remember very well was
I was in Brisbane (Brisbane) at the time of the trip
And that time was Easter
At that time I was hanging around the city with some friends
Because it was Easter
It was a continuous holiday
So nothing was open.
A lot of things weren't open.
It was just empty.
So we were just wandering around.
And then there was a friend from England
He wanted to drink beer.
It was a Friday.
They called it Good Friday.
It was a day when the bars were closed.
The bar was not open that day
It was closed
No alcohol could be sold on that day
I thought it was incredible
Especially the British friend
He thought, "Oh my God!
How could it be so strict?
He wanted to drink beer so badly
Then he wanted to drink so much that he went to the restaurant and asked if he could buy alcohol
And the restaurant staff said
You have to eat here
You can only order wine
But you can't order wine alone
So he felt very broken
Because he was not hungry
But he also wants to drink
So I think this is quite good
It can be seen that Australia's rules on alcohol is quite strict
With Taiwan is quite different
12:57
good
This is what I want to share with you three I think in Taiwan is very normal
But in Australia is very strange things
Then of course there are many cultural differences
If you want to hear me share more about the cultural differences between Taiwan and Australia and so on
You are welcome to follow me on my IG, youtube channel
Leave a comment and tell me
In your country and Taiwan
Are there any living habits that you feel are much different
For example, things that are normal in your country
in Taiwan is very strange
Or things that are normal in Taiwan
Some cultural differences that are strange in your country
You are welcome to leave a comment and tell me
It doesn't have to be in Taiwan
Because maybe not everyone who is listening has been to Taiwan
You can talk about
In your country and Asia
or China or Hong Kong
It's all right
You can practice how to express this cultural difference
13:58
Thanks to Amy from the UK for my 5 star review on Apple podcasts this week 💚 Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)